Yeah... kind of UCH special operations. [-] Let me try to sum this up for you. [-] After we escaped with our bare lives, there was a lot of discussion about what the fleet should do next. The two Admirals, my father and anyone with any relevant info, was either lost or dead. And when our voyage started, everything was chaotic as well.  [-] After a few weeks it became clear that we won't go back to earth anytime soon. So there was a fierce dispute on how to proceed. Although we had found a secret hiding place, some of the commanders and captains, led by Commander Lamarr, Captain Zerogen and others spoke to Vice Admiral Perez about supporting the local independence movement to find some allies and first and foremost gather more info that way, without running into the Zirax Empire again.  [-] But Perez did not want to risk anything until we had built up a solid base of operations in that sector. She was also much more favored to establish the plans for the 'Project Eden'. Finding a planet for us to live on - or for others that might follow us to Andromeda now or in the future. [-] Anyways. As a result,  Commander Lamarr and the others left the fleet and started the GLaD [-] I think, as things stand now, Perez is quite happy about that, because GLaD helped to lead the Zirax forces astray several times already. So, after misconceptions were ruled out on both sides, GLaD is now secretly working with the UCH fleet, nurturing the resistance movement of the Talon against the Zirax and trying to get hands on any info about our fate and what the hell is going on in this galaxy. [-] A short while ago, we actively tried to get in touch with you. Was quite a problem, but then one of our Talon agents managed to get hold of you. He was the guy upgrading your suit with our communication protocol. At the same time the Ilmarinen entered the sector and we found a way to implant an agent to the polaris mining facility where the Staff of Guidance was found.  And then .. here we are I think..
Did the info help to find answers?.
Our analysts are still putting together the big picture, but Emmerson said, the data you provided will most likely allow us to draw some serious conclusions - the first time ever. [-]You might want to speak to him. [-]He is down in the bar at the moment. [-] In the meantime I will check the mission status of Commander Lamarr. I'll let you know ASAP..
Thanks. That means a lot to me..
So, you must be the brave hero that we owe all that new data about the Talon, Zirax and the Legacy....
Not a fan of mine?.
Please excuse my lack of actual excitement, but I have just finished a 48h shift and was on my way to bed when Mercer said you want to speak to me ahead of any new assignment he might have for you..
Oh, he did not tell you?  Sure. Must be some sort of a Mercer family illness to not tell the one risking his life everything he needs to know. Same as his father who brought us into this mess...
Yep. Didn't you know? Lamarr told me that Mercer Senior made some mysterious intimations when she spoke to him ahead of all that trouble back on Apollon station. She did not trust him at all. And she was absolutely right. Her literally punching him into the face for all this bullshit he caused, it's a meme already.  Did not help us a lot .. but .. that's something she should explain to you in person.[-]So, what do you want to know, kid?.
Any new clues from the info I retrieved?.
Ok, I am trying a brief summary: [-] The Talon seem to have been refugees, fleeing from the Triangulum galaxy. Fleeing from something what we know as 'The Legacy'. Still no idea what that exactly is, but it seems to be able to infect, control and even convert biological beings and machines. Pentaxid, the fuel of our warp drives and many other things, seems to play a role. The Ilmarinen, which you visited lately, was captured this way, when the unlucky crew dug up a part of an infected pentaxid asteroid and brought it on board. Bad idea. That's all we know about the Legacy so far. [-] On the Talon topic: Your latest information indicates, that after the Talon arrived in Andromeda, they fell back into barbary, but have made it back to space in a short amount of time. They found and raised the Zirax and because the Talon were more the brains than the muscles, the Zirax grew into the role of the latter. After some decades of peace, the War of Silence started when the Legacy managed to follow the Talon to Andromeda. [-] We do not yet know how this happened and also not how the war actually ended, but as far as we can say, the outcome was that the Talon were nearly eradicated from Andromeda. Not by the Legacy, but by the Zirax. That's where we still do not have a lot of information why this turned out as it did. You finding that cryogenized Talon prisoner named Kar'han indicates that the Zirax turned against their century-long allies all of a sudden. [-] What we also know is that The Legacy was defeated, but not destroyed when the War of Silence ended. And it seems as though that entity is coming back to live more and more. As you, and others, already found out first hand. [-] Taking all that into account, there is one thing that does not make much sense at least to us: The Talon seem to still be technically capable of doing next-to-magical things, but those that are capable are hiding their knowledge even from their own tribes.  We have been working with them for nearly a year, but they still keep it a secret, why they do not use their abilities to their full extent. If you ask me, this is a bit suspicious. As if they are waiting for something..
Yes. Maybe one word about the strange stick you found: You probably should keep that Staff of Guidance either on you all the time or in a safe, but easy to reach place. [-] I am afraid we do not know what this device actually is or will do. I asked one of our Talon contacts, but he suddenly vanished and never reported back. [-]Just a gut feeling, but have it ready, when you need it, I guess..
Thanks Emmerson. Next drink is on me..
Commander, I am afraid I need to ask for your immediate help..
We have lost contact with one of our agents in the nearby Sigma Fulcrum station. [-] That happens once and awhile, but this specific agent not only was about to retrieve some valuable data from the caverns of the asteroid the station is built into .. but .. let's say he is not the usual agent and I am afraid he was a bit too ambitious than he was skilled for the task .. and I was running out of options..
I hope it is not, but if something happened to him, this is something I would never forgive myself. [-]  His name is Yarod..
Ok, I am listening..
First things first: Yarod is a scientist who was running the exotic materials lab when the station was still under Polaris control. He had some disagreements with the management of the station, which is said to have led to the station being abandoned and later being captured by Pirates. The role of the station was never fully revealed, and, more astonishing, the Polaris did not even make any attempt to regain control. That's about 10 years ago. [-] Today the station is known as the Sigma Fulcrum, run by a civil management and reportedly used by the Salurian clan as a main base of operations. Salurians are not the run of themill Pirates. They are in fact high tech hackers, counterfeiters, hijackers, traffickers, smugglers, forgers and run successful business operations on the sectors they operate on. [-] In the last months, the station also became a source of a new drug: Trilinithane.  We would have taken Tril, as they call it, as just another drug. [-]But then, Yarod came into play. [-] He contacted one of our local agents, pretending that the drug contains substances that cannot be found in this part of the galaxy. Maybe not even in Andromeda. That caught our interest. As the local agent was killed in what they say was an accident, Yarod volunteered to find out more. He said the source is somewhere down in the [-]machine hall level[-] of the asteroid  - in the belly of Sigma Fulcrum. [-] Just before you arrived, we got an emergency message from the station, calling for help. Signed by Yarod. [-] [-]It would be extremely important to get him out of there and take any valuable information with you. [-]The station might officially be labeled 'under a civil management', but [-]expect anyone with a weapon trying to kill you[-] as we do not know if this mission might already be compromised. [-] [-]Prepare for being attacked out of nowhere, but try not create too much havoc please..
Will do my best..
Glad you are here! The Salurian are after me. The station AI is trying to find and kill me as well. We need to do what needs to be done and then quickly get out of here..
Wait. You are a cyborg? We thought....
That's only half the truth. To be honest I have been the AI of this station, but managed to rescue myself from the VOID infection..