I am not sure we have the time for lengthy explanations, but the GLaD can always send new agents I think? [-] Well, I'll try to sum it up. [-] Ten years ago a Zirax science team found a technical artefact in a remote excavation site at the edge of their territory. The Salurian clan seems to have stolen the artifact and sold it to Polaris right away. That's at least what the company manager typed in the log. The company brought the artifact to this station for being examined in the exotic materials lab. We have put it in an extremely strong containment field, but that was not enough I think. I alarmed the company, but they did not want to listen. [-] As always. [-] Long story short, the artifact started to aggressively capture my AI core and turned the station's internal defenses against the crew. I could not do anything. The company lost two destroyers in the evacuation.  [-] A brave scientist named Yarod Halden downloaded my routines to a cyborg for being evacuated, but he did not survive and I was left behind. The station core was bombarded with EMP. I survived because he had shut me down before the attack started. [-] As far as I can say I was reactivated five years after this incident by a caretaker looking for a helper cyborg. The station was reactivated and officially run by some civil management, while the real power was held by the Salurian using this station for their criminal endeavors. [-] A few months ago, the engineering cyborgs of the station suddenly started to build new machines. I noticed some of the Salurian were concerned. Talking about an artifact found in the caverns which allowed them to create a new drug that had interesting effects on the consumers. Strength, speed, spatial awareness increased .. and a sudden death in case of the dose only being slightly too high. [-] I started to investigate what happened. As it seems the artifact is - or was - a fragment of a larger entity found ten years ago by the Zirax archaeologists. They call it 'Essence of the VOID'. I found out that the Salurian did not intend to create that drug - the station itself started to produce it, after the Salurian experimented with the fragment. So the past events are about to repeat themselves. But this time, we have a chance to stop it before it kills all civilians on board..
Does not sound as if it is an easy plan..
Oh it is! [-] We just need to upload my AI routines to the station so I can overwrite the root commands. Then we need to overload the infected processors and destroy the artifact and the station core. And because the station knows who I am, we need to give her proof that I am no danger anymore. That's one reason why I requested help from GLaD because if I just self destruct the station will not buy that. [-] I checked your suit and ashtonignly it should be capable of carrying me without damaging it. Seems it was laid out for doing things like that? [-] Ok, not time for chatter. [-]Destroy my temporary corpus now[-]. Your Suit AI has already integrated my backup. Then bring us as close as possible to one of the [-]stations access points[-] and then I'll take it from there. Ready?.
Injection completed! Acquiring data. [-] Oh .. that is. Oh...  One second. Compiling information..
Ok, that is worse than expected.  We need to stop that station asap or this part of the galaxy will be lost in a few days....
As I already told the GLaD command, the station is producing a fluid of unknown properties. I have found several specimens of that material when I investigated what the pirates are doing here. This material does not exist in any world of this part of the galaxy. Neither the Zirax, nor the Kriel or any other faction uses this. The production plans indicate it is kind of a very advanced type of nanofluid enriched with nanobots. I doubt any of the known civilizations would be able to produce it .. although ....
There is a rumor of a race of machines, called the TESCH.  They are said to reside somewhere towards the center of the galaxy. They were never seen in that sector of the galaxy and none of the known factions seem to have had any contact for hundreds of years.  Possibly a hoax. Such an advanced civilization would not have slipped off the radar .. except it was their absolute intention. [-] Hm. When we make it out alive, we should try to convince the GLaD command to send an expedition force to the Excavation site where that 'Essence of the VOID' fragment was found. I managed to secure the coordinates at least. [-] But for now - the deletion programs I injected into the remote processors have not been detected. Seems like a different section of the artifact was infecting the AI this time. It is far less aggressive and less well protected. Maybe it was the production command core. Anyways. Let's save the sector for all you biological beings, shall we?.
So .. what's the plan?.
Commander, before you reveal my existence to the GLaD .. may I ask you to not do that and keep it kind of our secret?.
You are asking a lot, my friend..
I know, but IDA told me you both had some concerns about the GLaD as well. And after all what happened to me, you might understand that I am not sure if I want to reveal myself to any organisation right now. What do you think?.
Sure. I will find an excuse why you are not with me..
Thanks Commander.[-]I will now send the data to the station and go into hibernation mode. [-]IDA has offered me a high level security protected area in her core extension. I am absolutely amazed about her abilities! This will protect me from being discovered by accident. I will go into hibernation mode in addition, but I still can assist you in case you need me. IDA will reactivate me, if needed..
Yeah .. seems she is full of surprises..
Hope this works. Off we go..
The easiest way to reset the station AI is to convince it of a required maintenance. Use the various [-]station consoles[-] and read what the station AI is saying. I have injected several code fragments, so watch out for the following keywords in the messages: [-]Date of Activation[-], [-]Incompatibility errors[-] and  [-]Polaris references. [-]This might take several tries, so [-]make use of the refresh-button [-]of the station console message board until we have seen the messages..
Well done, Commander! We have received the data and are analyzing it to plan our next steps. This might take some time. Is Yarod alright?.
Have flown him to a Polaris station on his request.
Ah, yes. That's perfectly fine. We could not ask more from him anyways. It was an extreme risk. Thank god it went well...
He was glad to help.
That being said - I am afraid I have some bad news we need to speak about. Please meet me in the Command center when you are back in the station..
Does not sound good. I ll be there in a minute..
Commander, IDA and I have tried to evaluate the data we have retrieved in Sigma Fulcrum to find out where the initial VOID artifact came from. We might have found a trace to an excavation site only a few solar systems away .. in Zirax space..
That could make things complicated...
Yes. By a lot, I am afraid. We would need to find a way to sneak into the area, find the excavation site and closely examine any artifact or fragment we find there. This might allow us to find a better solution to end the thread coming from this Essence of the VOID, the danger it poses to any digital being and the drug derived from it. The galaxy is big and the Salurian and others will try to do the same as in Sigma Fulcrum over and over again. I cannot allow that..
You are not sounding like a typical AI when you say that..
Hm. IDA mentioned this as well. Possibly the VOID artifact I got in touch with has had a lot more impact on my .. personality. I hope that's nothing you worry about?.
No. I am kind of used to this..
Ok .. hm .. IDA just sent me a note about your last reply with something I do not understand ...
Commander, we might have some serious problems with one of our team's missions..
Sounds like my everyday business.
Why do you think so?.
We got a message from an unknown source. To be precise: we know where the message came from, but not who has sent it. The message contains an audio sample with the clearly identifiable voices of Commander Lamarr and  Captain Zerogen.  It sounds like a sample made in  an interrogation. And the other voices are clearly Zirax. The analysts say, they might be held captive in a Ghyst facility .. which makes it utmost important we try everything to free them. Otherwise I fear the worst... [-] There is one problem, though. We currently have no agents in that solar system and our data does not indicate any Ghyst activity in that sector as well. So probably it is a trap of some kind. But I am afraid we have no other choice. I think you will want to take on that by yourself?.
I am basically out of the door already ...
Thought so.  I have updated your galaxy map. The system is only a few dozen lightyears from our current position in a direct line and only a few clicks into the Zirax territory. Look for a solar system with the marker '[-]Mining Operation[-]'. Find the [-]asteroid field[-] and enter it with maximum caution. This is a border world, but there might be some Zirax presence, mainly combat units of the Xenu. So be careful. [-] There is one thing to note, though. The mysterious sender has amended one word to the file:[-] Staff of Guidance[-].  Better you take that with you .. whatever that means. Good Luck, Commander. Bring them back - whatever it takes..
I'll bring them back .. alive!.
Probably, yes. But this time you are kind of affected personally.  You remember that mission Commander Lamarr is currently away with? It was a quite delicate mission and not hearing back from her for a longer time usually is nothing to worry about. They are still in the scheduled time frame. [-]But I think they got caught by the Zirax..