Welcome Commander [-]! I am honored by your attendance. I have been following your progress for quite a while..
Ah.. so usually you guys tend to shoot at me without any kind words.
Well, that's why we are meeting here on that fully automated vessel - and not anywhere else. We have a lot of things to talk about. And no worries, no one knows I am here. And that is not only good for you, but also for me. Otherwise I would never have invited you here..
I see .. ok, no, I do not understand a word..
Ok, so where do I start ...
Maybe with this message you sent...are the captives here? What do you want from me?.
No, they are not here. Your analysts might have found out already that they are held captive in a Ghyst facility. My spies have sent me that voice sample and I took the chance to get in touch with GLaD. I have hoped you would come personally - and I was lucky. I would like to help you get back your comrades, but this is a bit difficult for me as well, as this is nothing I can be linked with officially. Things in the Empire are a bit.. complicated at the moment..
So what's the deal?.
Right on the spot. As always. That's why I hoped you would come - and because there was a chance you won't blast this ship to pieces after you notice its insignia. [-] While we speak my agents are preparing more information about the Ghyst prison. In the meantime, I would like to ask you to help me with a few things in return...
Why should I do that?.
Because you will not only rescue your friends, but possibly also learn a lot about the past of the Zirax, the Talon and the Legacy. Information your friends from GLaD and the UCH fleet will not get hands on in a million years. Or aren't you interested in that?.
Great, so we have a deal. First thing I need to say is that whatever you will do for me, this will probably not increase your reputation with the Zirax Empire or their houses. Especially not with the Xenu and the Ghyst. I'll explain that to you later, if you want to know more..
So you cannot be linked to anything that will happen, correct?.
Correct. At least not yet.  [-] So, first thing I would like you to do is to bring me some of the [-]Technical Artifacts[-] found down on the temperate planet in this system. There is an [-]excavation site[-] with possibly some Xenu forces around. Eliminate the forces if you need to, but more important, go down in the caverns and bring me the artifacts. Feel free to take what you need for that mission from my ship..
Will be right back..
Oh - you are already back. Any problems so far?.
Not really. So what did I just bring you?.
Well, that's indeed interesting. What do you know about the TESCH and the VOID?.
Just the names - and some rumors..
Ok, so a little history lesson in a brief summary: the TESCH are a civilization of AIs. They reside in a quite large territory more towards the center of the galaxy. The VOID are being found in the same region - although they do not seem to be.. active? The TESCH, on the other hand, are a living civilization, but they do not aim for any contact with us biological beings and no one has ever tried to get in touch with them for at least a few hundred years..
Except your people, I assume?.
No, not even the Zirax Empire has had any real contact with them. Two or three centuries ago, there was a convoy heading for the center of the galaxy. The commander ran out of resources and they scavenged a field of debris. At least that's what the reports say, but it is more likely they unintentionally destroyed a TESCH collective in the process. As a result, the convoy was nearly fully eradicated and the remains were sent in a giant capsule to the Zirax Empire. [-] The House of Xenu and the Ghyst insisted on seeking revenge. Her majesty, the empress, was not willing to approve, so the Xenu and Ghyst ministers just used their powers and sent the fleets. None of them ever returned. After the ministers were removed from their positions her majesty and the loyalists forced a bill to not further provoke any military action from or with the TESCH..
Sounds like a wise choice.
It was. But the Xenu and the Ghyst did not forget about that defeat. Since then they use every chance they have to increase their standing in the Empire. The conflict with the Kriel .. it is a result of their rage as well. But I digress. Back to the TESCH. [-] It is said that the TESCH or their ancestors once ruled the whole galaxy. Which I think might be correct as remains of an ancient civilization, which vanished thousands of years ago, are still to be found everywhere. These are often also called the 'Progenitors'.   While I did my research about the LEGACY a few years ago, I also found a lot of evidence that the Progenitor seem to share some similarities with the LEGACY. At least to some extent, and although they might have never met. But I do not have any proof and this is not a very popular topic in the Imperial Academy for obvious reasons..
So, but what about the Essence of the VOID?.
To be honest - I do not have any idea. It seems to be related to the TESCH to some extent. As I said, the VOID are reportedly found in the territory of the TESCH, but they seem to just be monolithic, black rocks. That's why I wanted you to bring me those artifacts. I will analyze them and in case I get new evidence, I would be honored to solve that riddle with your help as well..
Speaking of help - so what about my friends?.
I am currently waiting for confirmation of their location. Should not take long anymore. Until then, in case you are interested to learn more about the Zirax history, the Talon-Zirax Assembly and the War of Silence, I probably have something for you..
Oh I see these terms are already familiar to you. Great. Then I would suggest visiting the old Abyssal archive and speak to its keeper..
I sense this is not just walking in a clean museum, correct?.
I am afraid, no. This particular archive was found only a year ago and is now under control of the Xenu. They did not manage to enter it, but I assume with the things currently escalating, they will just blast it to pieces. That's something I want to avoid at all cost..
That's where I come into play?.
I hope so. The archive is hidden in an asteroid [-]in the orbit of the Desert Burnt world in this sector.[-] The asteroid was once part of a planet that got destroyed in the late phase of the War of Silence. I heard you already found its counterpart: the archive of the Talon Academy of Science. You also found the Staff of Guidance. You should bring the staff with you when speaking to the Keeper.  He will probably recognize that insignia of the Talon-Zirax Assembly and will answer all of your questions. [-] Important for me and all of us is that you find a way to extract the knowledge that is kept there, before the Xenu manage to destroy it. The Keeper will help you with that when you show him the staff and this [-]Seal of the House of the Abyssal[-]..
Keeper of the Imperial Archives of the House of Abyssal.
Welcome visitor  to the Imperial Archives of the glorious House of Abyssal.[-]How may I serve you?.
So you must be the Keeper of these Archives?.
I am afraid there is no info available in these archives, your excellency. Other archives might hold information about them, but I am currently suffering from a long standing .. disconnection .. from the imperial archive network ...
Never mind then. Can you tell me something about the LEGACY instead?.
Of course, your excellency! [-] The term LEGACY is used to describe an entity that is capable of infecting biological beings and transforming them into an infected, yet intelligent version. The so called Infected do not suffer from hunger, heat or cold, can breathe or live in the vacuum of space or in extremely radiated places. The first contact with Infected has been recorded just ahead of the War of Silence, which started 1300 years ago..
What actually IS the LEGACY?.