Even before the War of Silence, the Zirax houses did all the dirty work for the Talon-Zirax assembly. When the War of Silence came to its end, evidence was found by the Xenu that the Talon might have initiated the war intentionally to weaken the houses and overtake the rulership. Ghyst specialists found out that the Talon were using similar tech than the ships of the LEGACY and that they seem to have come from the same spot outside of this galaxy. The high court of the houses decided that, after the dust of war settled down, to disempower these traitors for the good of all biological beings. [-]Most of the Talon did not escape their deserved punishment and were enslaved or sent to reservations. There have been reports of a refugee fleet having fled into deep space. The glorious Zirax Empire is well aware about that and always ready to withstand their attack - or anyone else's..
The Talon Treachery (additional info).
Yeah, I had expected that you would find this questionable. But you need to know, the archive was created by my ancestors and only with the view of the glorious Empire in mind. Let me fill in some blanks and clarify a few details. [-]The [-] the Xenu and the Ghyst found about the Talon having set up the War of Silence was already heavily disputed at that time. The specialist of the House of Abyssal later found out that the evidence was made up, faked or only half the truth. BUT, at this point no one did care, because the Houses have decided to take over the control. So they just used this reason - and everyone won. Except the Talon. A lot of the members of the Academy of Sciences were killed or imprisoned. But also a lot of the Talon, at least more than the Empire will admit, have fled into deep space. But never returned. [-]One thing of the evidence found back then seems to be correct: the Talon did use a similar tech than the LEGACY ships. Even the shapes of the ships were nearly identical. Also the weapons. And they came from a distant galaxy, Triangulum as you call it, as refugees as we found out. So there actually IS a connection between the Talon and the LEGACY. We just haven't found out what it is. I am feeling, we are so close....
While trying to rescue the GLaD team from a Ghyst  prison complex, you learn about a possible traitor inside the GLaD/UCH. You are also Alex the first time after more than a year -  after everyone in the UCH and GLaD though the player was dead / killed while having been dragged into the TITANs warp vortex with a not warp-capable vessel..
This was the first time you were learning about an ancient threat, called THE LEGACY. You got some early info from a cryo-contained prisoner called Specialist Kar'han. He gives a few, very rough info about a war against this entity, fought by the Zirax and Talon a long time in the past. You understand from what he was explaining, that the war did not go well and there was a serious conflict between the Talon and the Zirax. [-]You also learned that the Talon are not the primitive tribe they are showcasing themselves to the outer world. The Talon chief also indirectly confirms that you really arrived way after the Operation Phoenix fleet- which confirms the theory that you actually lost 1 year due to some hyperspace jump travel issues. [-]This mission is giving the very early info about all the non-UCH related story branches.[-].
Indication of Zirax vs. Talon conflict.
Bi[-]t some high-value-target prison with some comfort to ex...  oh ...  You don't look like a Zirax!.
Then ... What are you waiting for! We don't have a lot of time left! The Legacy is seizing this world. The Infinite Life Program has failed. The Zirax scum have nothing better to do than arrest all the science officers. Quick - we need to get out of here!.
No time for chatter! I am feeling the Legacy already growing inside ... Oh. I remember. My brain already seems to be getting dysfunctional.  I am infected! This is a cryo-containment facility.  ... Listen, stranger, whoever you are, you need to get out of here now! The Legacy has infested this place ... and me. The Zirax will kill anyone who comes in contact with it. I wonder why this prison cell is even still here ... I'm certain the self-destruct sequence is already activated..
Stranger, no time for long discussions: Tell my people! I am specialist Kar'han! Chief Officer of ... the Talon-Zirax Assembly......
Translation of the plate.
It says: The Legacy once ruled all the worlds of this galaxy. Worlds fell apart and into silence, but the honorable Zirax, with the Infinite Life Program, were able to end the threat once and for all, and it might never return. Praise the High Command!.
Hmm ... I do believe the damage on the plate was done on purpose. [-]The glorious past. The Assembly. The Legacy. A tale of the past. A child-frightening story about a big threat. Emptying the inhabited worlds and ending a whole dynasty. Destroying a millennium of peace and prosperity.
Sergeant Palant, Chief or Engineering.
Person with short handle M.
[-]Captain Brenner and most of the flight team were killed just seconds ago. A projectile hit the bow amidships. I was incredibly lucky. My absolutely justified criticisms, made after we ran into this mess, caused the lieutenant to send me to check the lifeboats - seconds before the bridge was hit. Karma ? Maybe not. Now, I can[-]m standing in front of the lifeboat section and cannot enter it, which doesn[-]ll put it here. Maybe I will continue it later. Hope at least our engineers did their job when creating these structurally strengthened sections. Emmerson, ensign, UCH Heidelberg.[-].
[-]..has hit us hard. Kind of a laser projectile or a very advanced rocket. We got separated from the main fleet. These Zirax have cut us off from the rest and are trying to bring us down. They will be successful. The captain has sent the emergency rescue signal. We are making an emergency landing. All engines are off. I am off to the rescue pod. Chief Engineer 1st class, Palant. out.[-].
[-]Timestamp: August, 26, 2473.[-]To whoever finds this.[-]The Heidelberg is lost. Only a few survived the crash. Palant has already made contact with the local natives, the Talon. They must have seen us coming down. We literally crashed on their front lawn. We are now heading towards the Talon settlement. The Zirax are on our heels, but seem to have lost interest .. or they are currently held up by the rest of the fleet. The last comm we got basically said the fleet is in retreat. The TITAN is lost, probably crashed on the Moon. Not sure if the crew survived. The MS GRAND has sent an encrypted signal which we hope the Zirax will not be able to decipher for a while. This is our ticket out of here. Some friends have put up a teleporter device in a wreckage area a few kilometers away. Emmerson, the lucky son of a .. , has generated a keycard. I am not sure if there are other ships coming down or other survivors. I[-]AI Routine 34'. Otherwise the console will self-destruct instantly. If this plan fails, I advise every other survivor to go find one of the Talon villages. These guys helped us to survive, and might help you as well. [-]Good luck to us and whoever is reading this. See you soon.[-]- M.[-].
Tales of the Past.
Waverider Protocol File XD897-22.
Warp Core Control Room.
Bridge - TITAN lost.
What we know so far (IDA).